README.md, before:

# ei-vo

`ei-vo` は MuJoCo ベースのビジュアライザとテレオペレーションのデモを含むリポジトリです。`examples/demo_mj.py` を利用すると、任意自由度のロボットモデルに合わせてデモ軌道を生成・再生できます。

## セットアップ

```bash
pip install -e .
```

MuJoCo のランタイムが必要です。必要に応じて [公式ドキュメント](https://mujoco.readthedocs.io/) を参照し、`MUJOCO_PY_MJKEY_PATH` などの環境変数を設定してください。

## MuJoCo デモ (`examples/demo_mj.py`)

- `--model` で MJCF ファイルを指定します。
- `--angles` に CSV/NPY/JSON 形式の関節軌道 (shape=(T, DOF)) を指定すると、そのまま再生します。
- 軌道ファイルを指定しない場合は、モデルの関節数を自動検出して安全域内のデモ軌道（ウェイポイントまたはサイン波）を生成します。
- `--record` を指定すると、再生内容を MP4 で保存できます（ファイルパスまたはディレクトリを指定可能）。
- `--recordFps` / `--recordSize` を使うと、録画のフレームレートや解像度を調整できます。

例: 3 自由度モデルをウェイポイントデモで再生する

```bash
python examples/demo_mj.py \
  --model examples/models/three_dof_arm.xml \
  --demo wp \
  --hz 240
```

角度ファイル（CSV など）を使う場合:

```bash
python examples/demo_mj.py \
  --model examples/models/three_dof_arm.xml \
  --angles my_angles.csv \
  --deg  # CSV が度[deg]単位の場合
```

## サンプルモデル

- `examples/models/three_dof_arm.xml`: テストやデモに利用できる 3 自由度のアームモデルです。
- `examples/trajectories/three_dof_arm_waypoints.csv`: 上記 3 自由度モデル用の参考軌道（ラジアン単位）。`--angles` に渡すことでそのまま再生できます。

## テスト

```bash
pytest
```

## ライセンス

プロジェクトのライセンスは `pyproject.toml` を参照してください。

Commit message:

Translate documentation and comments to English

README.md, after:

# ei-vo

`ei-vo` is a collection of MuJoCo-based visualization and teleoperation demos.
Using `examples/demo_mj.py` you can generate and replay demonstration
trajectories tailored to any robot model.

## Setup

```bash
pip install -e .
```

You need the MuJoCo runtime available on your system. Refer to the
[official documentation](https://mujoco.readthedocs.io/) for installation
instructions and environment variables such as `MUJOCO_PY_MJKEY_PATH`.

## MuJoCo demo (`examples/demo_mj.py`)

- Specify an MJCF file with `--model`.
- Provide a CSV/NPY/JSON trajectory file via `--angles` (shape=(T, DOF)) to
  replay it directly.
- If no trajectory is supplied, the script auto-detects the model DOF and
  generates a safe demo trajectory (waypoints or sine wave).
- Use `--record` to save playback as MP4 (accepts a file path or directory).
- `--recordFps` / `--recordSize` control the recording frame rate and
  resolution.

Example: play a waypoint demo for a 3-DOF model:

```bash
python examples/demo_mj.py \
  --model examples/models/three_dof_arm.xml \
  --demo wp \
  --hz 240
```

Using an angle file instead:

```bash
python examples/demo_mj.py \
  --model examples/models/three_dof_arm.xml \
  --angles my_angles.csv \
  --deg  # Use when the CSV is in degrees
```

## Sample models

- `examples/models/three_dof_arm.xml`: 3-DOF arm for testing and demos.
- `examples/trajectories/three_dof_arm_waypoints.csv`: reference trajectory
  (radians) for the model above; pass it to `--angles` to replay immediately.

## Tests

```bash
pytest
```

## License

See `pyproject.toml` for license details.
